here's today's scenery
rooftop stretch
all right so let's get right into it
it's more effective to stretch when your
muscles are warm so i like to stretch
while activating my muscles as much as
possible to get some warmth and a lot of
people want to get skills like the
splits so this is the best way to train
for it is just to try it so here we go
all you're gonna do is pick whichever
front split you're going to do
go to the point that you can control
which for me i can go a little bit
further but we're warming up so you're
just gonna hold it right here hold it
along with me if you like
and you're just gonna hold your focus is
on two different muscle groups here
you're actively pulling your heel
towards you
with your hamstring so you're flexing
that hamstring and you're actively
driving your toes into the ground for
your hip flexor here
holding and balancing
as the time progresses you can actually
lengthen a little bit by sliding that
foot out a little bit further
holding
oh
this is such a good stretch if you've
never done this before you should
definitely try this
the goal is around 20 to 30 seconds
for an active stretch like this
and that's about good for me and i
usually like to hang out right here for
a couple seconds after
before switching on
to the other side here we go other side
same thing i'm going to go ahead and
split the legs so you're going to be on
your heel and you're going to be on your
toes in the back in a split just like so
find that balance again you're actively
pulling your heel towards you
and you're driving your toes into the
ground so your hamstring is activated
and your hip flexor is also activated
it's also worth noting that while you're
doing these exercises you want to focus
in on your breathing
i like deep long slow breaths into the
nose and out through the mouth but you
can do
whatever feels best for you a lot of
people have different preferences
keep that going a little bit longer
breathing deeply
and relax down if you like and i'm gonna
hang out in this stretch for just a
little bit longer
now if you have a tighter side it might
be worth it just to hang out in this
stretch just a little bit longer
but if you don't we'll move on i already
feel pretty warm after that so um that's
pretty good but i'm always gonna move on
to some deep squat practice right after
that so here we go all i do is just
squat down as much as possible
for me this is
a little bit easier because i've been
doing this for a while but a lot of
people
their heels come off the ground which is
fine just go ahead and do that and all
you're going to do is sink your heels
down toward the ground and use the floor
for balance just like this
what you're doing is you're stretching
your soleus muscle which is that smaller
deeper calf muscle
i always like to rock side to side
i feel that stretch alternating around
and here's where the activation comes in
you're gonna bring your knees forward
until they touch the ground
once there you're gonna think about
pushing your pelvis away
so that your quads are activating and
you're just gonna hold this for a little
bit
breathing deeply
i always like to breathe in through the
nose and out through the mouth but it's
up to preference for you
a couple more seconds here
around 20 seconds is your goal for these
active type of stretches
and come on out
of that stretch
and i'm going to transition to a
hamstring stretch
just reaching toward the toes
these are elephant walks when you
alternate bending which knees
just like this
so what we're doing while we're doing
these elephant walks is we're stretching
our hamstring obviously but you might
feel a stretch into your calves while
you do this
and you might even feel it into the
bottoms of your feet and if you do
that's because we're nerve flossing
right now we're letting those nerves
slide in between the muscles the
ligaments
and because your
nerves they don't really stretch like
your muscles and ligaments do
but they do slide in between
and this helps them do that go and
straighten both of those legs
and flatten out that back as much as
possible and you might not be this far
over you might be somewhere up here
which is okay just go to that point that
you can
and we're going to bend both of those
legs and press the pelvis up feel that
stretch
so we're kind of mimicking eccentric
movement by straightening those legs all
the way out
and again one more time straighten it
all the way out
hold here for a few seconds
three
two
one and back to that deep squat
and sway let those muscles relax again
now you should feel really really really
warm after that so from here from this
point on i move on to my static
stretches it's kind of raining so it's a
little wet here but
we're just getting it today static
stretches so i like to just do that
basic sprinter stretch hammer hamstring
stretch you sit down
bend one leg in
and you're just gonna round yourself
forward and grab whatever you can for
some people they can only grab their
knee their shin their ankle doesn't
matter
just grab whatever you can and sink your
chest down towards your leg there's a
couple different variations that i do in
this hamstring stretch when i do stretch
and again focusing on that breathing
so we're going to do
probably three different variations
here's the second variation go ahead and
lift the knee off of the ground so that
it's bent a little bit and what you're
going to do is sink your chest onto your
leg or as close to it as you can and
again reach forward
you should be feeling that hamstring
stretch but in a slightly different area
now
focusing in on your breathing and you'll
notice once we get to the other
hamstring that one side is usually
tighter than the other it's totally
normal
instead of stretching more intensely on
the tight side what you want to do is
spend
a little bit more time on it so at the
end of the video you can go back and
stretch it just a little bit more
we're into our third variation
straighten that leg out what you're
going to do is flatten your back now a
lot of people can't flatten their back
and hold this stretch right here so what
you can do if you can't
is just flatten your back back here and
walk yourself forward till you get to
that point
pausing and holding that stretch
and you may notice i do little movements
i'm not bouncing into the stretch
bouncing is not very good
but little tiny movements kind of helps
me feel out how deep that i should be
going into these stretches
and lift out of that stretch i always
like to shake that leg out should feel
pretty crazy after that
and we'll switch sides bend the other
leg in
here we go same thing that we did on the
other side
just round forward and reach and we're
gonna hold that hamstring stretch while
we go
a lot of people ask me about my shoes by
the way
um
i'll leave a link in the description
i'm an affiliate so if you want to
support me you can click the link or you
can just go to xeroshoes.com they're
barefoot shoes i love them so much
when you're doing this breathing
the reason why i have you breathe
through the nose uh into the nose and
out through the mouth
is because i feel like it brings a
little bit more focus to the stretch
number one and number two
there's also some studies that people
are doing
that nasal breathing is healthier for
you than breathing through your mouth
but i don't think the differences are
that big go ahead and release that
stretch bend the knee
and sink the chest down toward the leg
feel that stretch in a slightly
different area
holding and breathing
i love stretching the hamstrings if i
could just stretch one muscle group it
would probably just be the hamstrings
um there's just something satisfying
about it
and come out of that stretch and our
last one straighten the leg all the way
out flat in the back and again if you
need to push off the ground go for it
find that stretch and hold
a lot of these stretches i don't really
count the time for i kind of just
intuitively figure it out
um
and i like that system because
the way it works is especially when one
leg is tighter than the other i can kind
of hold it a little bit longer than the
other side
breathing deeply
and come out of that stretch shake that
leg out
and we'll move on to the opposite side
of the leg so instead of the hamstrings
we're going to move on to the hip
flexors and i always like to do that
with a activated lunge first so we're
going to be in a runner's lunge just
like this that leg is active
this knee is off of the ground so you're
actively straightening it
hold it right here you should feel that
stretch right here but if you feel the
stretch more towards the glute on this
side that's okay too that just means
you're a little bit tighter there and
this is a great stretch for that area
too if that's where you're tight
good and next variation drop the knee
down to the ground point the toes out
behind you and sink these hips down
toward the ground holding
i'm gonna take you through a few
different variations if a variation gets
a little bit too difficult just stick
with the last variation
um through the next stretch here we go
next variation you're gonna hands on the
knees lift yourself up
think about tucking your tailbone under
you don't want to arch your back to get
up you want to
keep a flat back
think about sinking that pelvis down
toward the ground
and if you'd like to challenge yourself
even further you can also
reach up overhead
last few seconds
falling
and drop down
good and let's switch sides
starting with our sprinter lunge
holding
activating that quad so that the knee
lifts off of the ground
holding and breathing
leave a comment asking for what kind of
stretching routines that you guys want
because i have i know a lot of stuff
that helps the back i know stuff for the
knees whatever you guys need i'd like to
be as helpful as possible in these
stretching routines and i'm also trying
to get more consistent on youtube as
well so look forward to that go ahead
and drop that knee down again point the
toes out behind you go ahead and sink
those hips down toward the ground
holding here
sometimes i get ahead of myself on one
side
and i have to remind myself the
variations i do
the benefit of doing that workout
sort of stretching the active stretching
that we did at the beginning of the
video
is that this stretch feels really really
good for me
especially since my hip flexors
historically have been very very tight
go ahead and lift yourself up next
variation up onto the knees holding
keep those hips sinking down to the
ground
breathing deeply
and if you'd like to go into that last
variation here we go
lifting those hands up
in this one you may feel a stretch into
the abs as well
that's a good thing
and lower yourself down
and come out of that stretch we just
need two more left we're into the outer
sides of the hips and the inner sides of
the hips to finish out the lower body so
for the outer side we're gonna do a
piriformis stretch um it looks something
like this um this is actually how i do
it but um for most people it's a little
easier to do it laying down and holding
it like this
but instead of pulling it all the way in
think about dropping your tailbone down
to the ground
and hold for a stretch
go ahead and lift up and hold it like
this
breathing deeply so this this muscle by
the way this is your piriformis there's
a couple other muscles stretching
obviously as well but the reason why i
like to stretch this piriformis muscle
out is because your sciatic nerve
actually runs in between your piriformis
muscle and your pelvic bone
so when it gets tight it can cause
pressure on it and cause pain to shoot
down your legs and it's called
piriformis syndrome
often mistaken for sciatica
and let's switch sides
and feel that stretch if you're laying
down remember to keep that tailbone down
if you're up like this just flatten your
back to feel that stretch
and again oftentimes one side is tighter
than the other
you may notice that your left leg is
tighter than your right leg on this one
and it's usually because
um driving your left leg tends to relax
while your right one stays active and
that makes the left one get tighter
but a lot of people have the opposite
problem as well
a few more seconds left
and release that stretch let those legs
relax we're gonna do two more stretches
then we're done i always go on to my
butterfly stretch
breathing deeply
round yourself forward
push those knees open to the side a
little bit
and this one's okay to move those knees
you can squeeze them together and push
them away
just get those muscles activated
especially towards the end of your
stretching set your muscles are starting
to cool down again
and like we discussed at the beginning
stretching is more effective when your
muscles are warm
but that doesn't mean don't stretch if
you're cold because if you are cold you
can still stretch
sometimes i like to focus on every
exhale i
sink deeper into the stretch
but remember you're stretching with
intensity but not pain so find
that area for you only you can find that
out for you
and come out of that stretch
and our last stretch that we're going to
do is our pancake so all you're going to
do
is you're sitting tall open those legs
as wide as you can go um this is
actually believe it or not even though i
can do my splits this is as wide as i
can actively push it without forcing it
so that's where i go
i grow as tall as possible so you're
flattening the back
and remember you can flatten your back
against the ground if you need to
flatten your back out and you're just
going to lean forward if you need to
reach go for it and what you're going to
do is
use your legs to dip forward
and lift back up i'm going to do this
about 10 times
breathing deeply
sinking forward
and lifting back up and you may notice
that every time you can go just a little
bit further
you want to avoid pain
sometimes it helps to put the hands
behind your back
and i say about 10 times because
i don't really count i just follow what
my body feels
i'm gonna do one more
and i'm gonna hold it for a little bit
longer i'm gonna hold it right here here
we go
breathing as we go
activating those muscles to hold myself
up lifting up
and now the last one you're just gonna
scoot yourself a little further forward
into that stretch
and you're just gonna hold right here
for around 20 seconds or so and then
we're done
thank you for joining me for this
stretching routine
um leave a comment let me know what sort
of stretching routine that you'd like
next
a couple more seconds
and i like to pull my legs in after a
stretch
good shake those legs out
and walk it off
stay flexy